Jenkins! Jenkins! I need a door!
Yes, I realize I'm in the woods!
That's precisely why I need a door!
[Ninjas shouting indistinctly and grunting]
- Whoa, aah!
- [Shouts indistinctly]
Hey, fellas, I'm not the problem.
Uh, this is the problem. This oni bell.
See, when you ring it, the
place becomes crawling
- with d...
- [Men shout indistinctly and growl]
Never mind that.
You're gonna feel a lot
better when I'm gone.
Jenkins, I'm coming!
[Growling and shouting]
- [Whoosh]
- [Screaming]
- Ha ha ha! Neat trick.
- [Sighs]
That thing's gettin' better and better.
Speaking of better, me.
This is the last of the objects of power
that we have to keep
out of Prospero's hands.
Well done, sir.
Which means I am done.
Fin. Samapta.
Discharged all my duties,
reclaimed all of the artifacts,
and now officially have
nothing... to... do.
[Sighs]
♪
Where is everybody?
Hello?
Not saying that I'm in
this job for the praise,
but last of the Library's artifacts?
- Jenkins?
- Sir.
- Where are the others?
- Other what, sir?
The other Librarians and Eve.
- Eve?
- My Guardian?
Sir, you don't have a Guardian.
[Chuckles]
And you're the only
Librarian in the world.
Subtitle sync and corrections by awaqeded
WEB-DL resync by kinglouisxx
for www.addic7ed.com.
So... you don't remember anything?
Eve Baird. Amazing eyes.
Woman I've been avoiding...
[Blows air]
...for a very long time
for very good reason.
Sorry, sir, never heard of her.
- [Knobs click, electronic frequencies buzzing]
- Cassandra Cillian?
Possibly better than me
at theoretical physics,
- although we never tell her that.
- No, sir.
Well, that rules out
neuro-magical trauma.
Put your hand on this book.
Take a deep breath in.
- [Inhales deeply]
- And out.
- [Exhales deeply]
- And in. Jacob Stone.
He wrote that cute, little
article that you liked
about O'Keefe so much.
Ezekiel Jones, the conclave incident?
That sounds like a sentence, sir,
but there's no information in it.
No Dixon Amnesia.
- [Tools clatter]
- I was so sure.
Well, looks like I may need
a teeny, weeny brain sample.
Uh, Mr. Carsen...
[Whoosh, glass shatters, books clatter]
- That's new.
- Yeah.
Whoa. [Grunts]
Um, Mr. Carsen, d...
- Uh...
- Aah!
Uhh!
Shh, shh. Shh, shh.
Use your words.
[Singsongy] Use your words.
A Salish totem pole
stolen from Cicely
island in Puget Sound.
Maybe that's where the others went,
to investigate this missing
item in the Puget Sound.
Yes, sir, I doubt that,
considering they probably
don't really exist.
Ahh! Just what they want
you to think, but why?
It's a mystery.
Jenkins... Fire up the Back Door.
Yes, sir.
[Whoosh]
[Birds chirping]
No obvious ground disturbance.
- Okay, pal, step out of my crime scene.
- Eve! I...
- How do you know my name?
- Uh...
Okay, just to confirm before I jump
into full investigatory mode,
this isn't some kind of
elaborate cold shoulder
because you're mad at me?
I don't know what you're talking about.
I need to see some I.D.
Investigatory mode it is.
So you are Sheriff Baird,
and we've never met.
Cicely's got a population of about 2,000.
If I don't know you,
you're not from here.
If you make me ask again,
it's gonna involve handcuffs.
Who are you?
I'm Flynn Carsen, the Librarian.
Librarian? From the State
Office of Tourism.
Are you here about the totem pole?
Yes. Yes, that... sounds plausible.
Well, why didn't you say so? Come on!
♪
- Morning, Sam.
- SAM: Hi, Sheriff.
- Eva.
- EVA: Morning, Sheriff.
The totem pole's
a real important
tourist attraction to us.
I sure am glad your office cared enough
to send you all the way out here.
Let me ask you, how is
it that you ended up
in this very pretty but
very out-of-the-way town?
I spent my entire life in the military,
moving around from base to base,
but I always wanted to settle down
in a little town where
everybody knows your name.
- Morning, Savannah.
- Morning, Sheriff.
Uh-huh. And...
The totem pole... you see,
I'm something of an expert
on Native American art.
Oh-ho-ho! Don't you worry.
The world's foremost expert
is already on our team.
Team?
[Motor rumbling]
Uh, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. No.
Sorry I'm late, Sheriff. I was, uh...
I was teaching class.
Mr. Carsen, this is
Professor Jacob Stone
- from the University of Cicely.
- Hi.
- He teaches...
- Go.
- I know this.
- Come on.
- Art history, art history...
- Art history.
Literature, architecture,
archaeology, mythology...
- comparative religion, and...
- Yeah.
- Not mad at you. I'm not mad at you.
- Okay, I'm gonna get it.
- I'm not mad at you.
- I'm gonna get it.
Okay, I'm sorry. There's a university
on the island of Cicely,
a town with 2,000 people?
Yeah, University of Cicely.
The University of Cicely.
Very prestigious.
- Wow. And you teach there?
- I do.
- In 11 departments at once.
- Yeah.
I don't... well, when I'm not
saving the World Heritage Sites
from tomb raiders,
but, you know... shall we?
- Oh, Egyptology!
- I didn't... I-I knew.
You said that! I knew it.
- I had to give you a little time.
- I know.
It's called tidal locking.
You see, as the moon orbits the Earth,
it moves at the exact same speed,
and that is why the
same side of the moon
- is always facing the Earth. Got it?
- [Door opens]
EVE: Hard to remember.
Autumn? Annie? Mind if I
borrow Commander for a sec?
Oh, and, Autumn, make
sure you tell Nate
I won't forget to bring the cruiser
down to the school picnic
for the kids to play on.
Thanks, Sheriff.
Commander Cassandra Cillian,
this is Flynn Carsen.
Commander Cillian is
our local physicist,
astronaut... [Singsongy] and TV star!
"Cassandra Cillian: Science Explorer."
- The kids love her.
- Don't get me wrong,
my 18 flights with NASA were amazing.
After leading
the Grimaldi crater rescue mission,
I just felt there was more
I could do back here on Earth.
- Grimaldi crater?
- Mm.
That's on the moon.
Yeppers. Picked up this little
souvenir on my third trip.
[Horse whinnies]
- That was a horse.
- Pony.
- I also have ponies.
- Mm-hmm.
You're an astronaut, a physicist,
you teach science to
children, and you have...
- ponies.
- [Horse blusters]
Yep.
And you're all here together in a bar...
which has an unusual amount of books.
Yeah, well, it's kind of our, uh, H.Q.
- Yeah.
- We own it together.
Oh, well, us and Agent Jones.
Jones? Agent Jo... Agent Jones?
Special Agent Jones, FBI
I head up the Cicely Field Office.
I'm a rule-breaking maverick,
but I get results.
My local liaison is the
by-the-book Sheriff Baird
and together, we fight crime.
[Clink]
Have you all lost...
[Thud]
Have you all lost your minds,
or... or... or... or have I?
[Door opens]
- Sorry I'm late, everyone.
- ALL: Moriarty!
Moriarty! Okay, now
this all makes sense!
Hello, Sheriff.
Wh-wh-wh...
♪
[Scoffs] I'm wrong?
Does not make any sense.
That makes no sense.
That's the opposite of sense.
That's nonsense.
Kissing. You're kissing him.
- With your lips, you're gonna kiss him.
- Why do you care who I kiss?
What did you do?
What did you do to her?
Something magical?
I asked him out on a couple of dates.
I wouldn't call it magical,
but I like a man with brains.
[Sighs]
Oh. Uh, excuse me, sir.
I don't believe we've had the pleasure.
- I'm Mayor James Moriarty.
- I know who you are, Professor...
Oh, is it "mayor" now?
It's Mayor Kissing.
Mayor Moriarty.
And nobody has a problem with this?
- Nope.
- CARSEN: None of this?
Stone, it is impossible for
you to prep, grade, teach
courses in 11 different departments
and still have time to sleep,
let alone protect World Heritage Sites.
We make time for what's important.
[Clears throat] Cassandra...
You couldn't have gone to the moon.
Nobody been to the moon since 1972.
Another moon hoax conspiracy nut.
I bet you don't even like ponies.
I adore ponies.
And... this guy? Special Agent?
He's, like, 15 years old!
And Australian!
How could he be in the FBI?
Agent Jones may be a
rule-breaking maverick,
but he's done excellent work
with the Cicely Field Office.
There are 2,000 people on this island!
How could there be...
an FBI Field Office?
Oh, it's a hot spot for
smuggling art into Canada
through the Yukon Trail.
[Whispers] What? No.
[Normal voice] No, no. No. What?
Yeah, that's why we all work together.
- Solving art crime.
- Hence all the books.
- You'd be surprised how much they help.
- It's true.
Let me... [Clears throat loudly]
Let me get this straight.
You're all here working together,
recovering artifacts from
a building full of books,
and yet you have absolutely
no idea who I am.
- I don't know.
- No.
- Nope.
- STONE: I don't know who you are.
- EZEKIEL: Sorry, mate.
- EVE: Sorry.
I need a bathroom.
[Cell phone speed-dials]
Jenkins? I need a door right now.
[Whoosh]
- That's the ladies room.
- [Clatter]
You're saying a Guardian
I've never heard of,
three impossible Librarians, and Moriarty
are all suffering under a massive spell
to erase their memories of you?
That's it. That's it, exactly that.
It's like they're themselves,
but they're not themselves.
They're all leading these
alternate lives...
ridiculous lives.
[Laughs] I mean, ridiculous.
Even Moriarty, and I can't
shake them out of it.
This sounds like
self-reinforcing delusion,
which if you are correct, I may
be suffering under myself.
The more you try to break
it, the stronger it gets,
in which case, you're
gonna have to play along.
The Clipping Book sent
us to find this totem.
This has to be the center of it.
Either it's the focus of a ritual,
or maybe it was the seal
that kept an ancient curse
from getting out. Either way...
Either way, finding this may
go a long way into solving it.
Well, that's what they're
all trying to do.
I mean, despite everything,
they're still coming together.
They're acting like themselves,
except for Eve dating Moriarty,
which I don't understand at all.
Mr. Carsen, so...
Right. Play along. That's...
That's good. That's a good idea.
[Whoosh]
- [Indistinct conversations]
- Hey! Sorry about that!
[Sighs] I'm feeling much better.
Obviously, your lives
make perfect sense.
Let's find that missing totem pole.
- So what do we know?
- It's not an important relic.
- It's a mid-20th century replica.
- It's not worth anything,
so no-one would steal it for money.
But it is an important tourism asset.
That totem pole is 16 feet tall.
If the thieves took it off the island,
somebody at the docks
would have seen something.
Ah, very good.
You and I will go to the docks.
Oh, I think Eve and I
will go to the docks.
You can go along with
Special Agent Jones.
We'll check in with my informants.
- I've got ears on the streets.
- Stay out of trouble, Jones.
I don't need another mess in my town.
Don't worry, Sheriff.
I'll keep the new guy in line.
Who's the... oh, I'm the new guy?
That's right. I'm the new guy.
I'm the new guy.
[Thud]
So, Eve, this friend of
yours from the mainland...
odd fellow.
Do I... know him from somewhere?
Who? Carsen? He's not a friend.
He's just...
[Soft whoosh]
- Some... crazy Librarian.
- [Soft whoosh]
Hmm. Well, whatever he thinks,
I'm glad you asked me
to kiss you... with lips.
[Chuckles]
But, frankly, I wouldn't have
thought that was your type.
You've seen the world.
I've lived my entire
life here in Cicely.
It's true, James. I have seen the world,
and I have to say you are
one of the most grounded,
genuine real people I've ever known.
Also, the accent's a big turn-on.
If you're waiting for the ferry, Sheriff,
it's got a bad case of rudder flop.
Been down three days.
What are you saying, Bob,
nobody's been on or off
the island in three days?
- Not a soul.
- What about private boats?
Nope, any boats coming in
or out, I'd know about it.
Huh. Thank you, Bob.
Say hi to Suzanne.
Yeah.
So if the ferry's down,
then the totem must
still be on the island.
If the ferry's down, we
have a bigger question.
How did that Librarian
get on the island?
Freeze!
[Grunting]
Stop! FBI!
Stop! Office of Tourism!
[Grunting]
[1970s cop show music playing]
Oh!
- [Grunts]
- Aah!
You so did not have to do that slide.
You didn't even have to get up on
top of that. [Handcuffs clicking]
You do know that actual FBI work
is patient, detailed record-keeping
and long, boring stakeouts.
You're watching too
many cop shows, mate.
- No, I would say that this is...
- [Gunshots]
- [Woman screams]
- Come on. Let's go!
The Cossini brothers!
♪
[Grunts and laughs]
Ran down my sources.
No leads on the missing totem pole.
- He didn't. He didn't run down any...
- And I broke up
the Cossini brothers counterfeit ring.
Oh, yeah, that was entirely normal.
Stone noticed something strange
about the location of the totem pole.
Well, I noticed it was off-center.
It's not put in the best possible light.
Then I started thinking,
even though the totem pole's modern,
could've incorporated some older
archaeo-astronomical traditions.
We're trying to confirm
it now, but we think,
at the solstice, the rising sun
and the totem pole line up
to form a perfect line
pointing right here,
and since the sun sets behind us,
it points right back to the pole.
That's it.
There's a connection between
you and the totem pole.
Must be part of the magic
that's affecting you.
What? What'd he say? Did he say "magic"?
That's ridiculous. [Laughs]
Well, I mean, "magic"
is just a word we use
to describe things we
don't understand, right?
So... maybe it's not magic
per se, but... magic-like?
We do have a whole department
of weird files at the Agency.
With all the myths and
monsters out there, I mean,
it would be ethnographically impossible
to think that all those
stories were made up.
- I mean, I guess, magic...
- Mr. Carsen, we need to talk.
[Clears throat]
[Door opens]
Yeah.
Is there a problem, Sheriff? [Grunts]
How exactly did you get here
to Cicely Island, Mr. Carsen?
Uh... by boat?
Try again, Mr. Carsen.
Dock's been down for three days.
James is at town hall
confirming your credentials.
I suggest you tell me the
truth before he gets back.
The truth, Eve, is that
you and I are colleagues.
Moriarty is an evil genius
sent here by a wizard
who's got you all
under a powerful spell,
and I'm here to rescue you.
Yep, cuff time! Grab him, Jones.
Sheriff, how can I be the... [Screaming]
- [Handcuffs clicking]
- Aah! I just... aah!
You fit the profile, mate.
You're an unconvincing liar,
and you're the only
outsider on the island.
Actually, he's not.
There's another one.
She just got here the
day before yesterday.
She's a nice lady, but I've
never seen her before.
[Irish accent] Oh?
Yes?
Wow. You're all looking at me.
Is this the part where I say something?
It is?
Well...
Hello.
I'm Ariel. I'm a fairy.
♪
You're Ariel?
I am me, and you're you.
You're Flynn Carsen,
you're part of that place... the Library!
Yes, this makes perfect sense. Of course.
Because if Moriarty's here,
that's why you would be here, too,
- so Prospero's behind the spell
- Oh, shh!
- On the island...
- [Whispers] No, no, no. No.
[Normal voice] He'll hear ya.
If he hears you, then he'll see you.
If he sees you, he'll see me,
and he'll remember where I'm not
supposed to be, which is here!
[Whispers] They're all
still looking at us.
I know.
You... probably have some questions.
Uh... no, not really.
Think we've pretty much
solved the big mystery.
You think so? I do, too.
I just needed the last piece
of the puzzle, and now
it makes perfect sense.
Obviously, Prospero's behind all this.
Otherwise, why Moriarty? He didn't know
that you and I were dating...
and you're not talking about that.
You're talking about the totem pole.
I am, in fact, talking
about the totem pole.
You think that we took it,
that we're working together.
I do, in fact, think both those things.
So... [Sighs] Handcuffs,
jail cell, interrogation,
that kind of thing?
Pretty much. Might even
break out the hot lights.
Jones, cuff mystery girl.
- [Clacking]
- Oh, no. No, no. No, no. No, no.
- [Whoosh]
- Those are steel. Steel is iron.
- Iron and Fae don't mix.
That's what I am... Fae.
So, really, I have to go.
[Whoosh]
- Uh... I have a door.
- [Chuckles] A door.
- [Gasps] Like a step door?
- Ready?
[Whispers] Go.
♪
[Whooshing]
Out! I want back out!
Jenkins, quick! The doors!
Don't let her get away!
Out! Out! Aah! Out, out, out!
Ariel! You... you can't hide
inside that false world forever.
You want to bind me, like Prospero did!
I'm gonna break that spell, my friend.
And if you help me, I'll help
you escape Prospero's grasp!
Ha ha!
- [Whoosh]
- Aah! You've gotta let me out!
[Whooshing]
[Ariel speaking indistinctly]
Oh! Let me go! You have to let me go!
Not until you tell me what
Prospero intends to do
with my friends.
- [Whoosh]
- Do you know what I am?
I could destroy you with a blink.
Not from where you're standing.
That's a Blumhardt Loop.
Discovered by Johann Blumhardt
in 1843 to trap demons.
Turns out it'll trap
just about anything supernatural.
I have never seen anything
move that quickly.
Except that night...
correction... the night
I heard Santa come home
early from Oktoberfest.
- [Whirling and whistling sounds]
- [Mutters]
Technically, she's just
bending space around here.
Otherwise, she's no
faster than you or me.
- Elfin stuff.
- Hmm.
And...
- Done.
- Oh!
Sorry.
I'll help you.
Whew.
It's not a spell. Well, it is,
but it... it's also a story.
Story spells are the wizard's favorite.
Story spells? She's talking
about narrative magic.
Messy stuff, sir.
Requires massive power.
Intense focus. I mean,
the only ones who even
- dare deal with it are...
- Fictionals.
No-one more focused than a Fictional.
If there's one thing
they know how to do,
is tell a good story.
How do you think that Prospero g...
the... the wizard.
How do you think the wizard
caught me in the first place?
Oh, I'm not Fictional.
No, no, he wove me into his story.
Fictional wizard, fictional
magic, story logic.
I'm starting to see why the others
are having a hard time
embracing their true realities.
I mean, Jones as an FBI Agent?
We have to get them out of there.
- Why?
- Excuse me? Why?
Because it's a jail, whether
they realize it or not.
No, no, it's... it's mercy.
Something is coming.
When the wizard's work is done,
the world will be...
Uh... [Stammers] He...
Uh, he's... he's given them
each their own new story
- with their very own happy ending.
- But it's not real.
It will be.
Its strength comes from
their secret desires.
The longer it works,
the more they want it.
The more they want it,
the stronger it gets.
If we don't break the spell
in the next 24 hours,
it will be forever.
Librarians are being used
like... like batteries.
They're the power source.
Well, sir, if the
Librarians are the juice...
Then all we need to do
is sever the connection,
- cut the power.
- [Scoffs] Good luck.
No, no, no. To break the spell,
you have to get them to reject
their Happily-Ever-Afters,
and no mortal has ever
been able to do that.
Well, we don't have to. That's
what these'll do for them.
Jenkins, I'll need four
more Blumhardt Loops.
- Oh.
- Ariel, we're going back.
No, no, we are not going back.
- He'll see me. He'll catch me again.
- Ariel.
I have to save them.
I need you to do it. Help me.
And I promise you, I'll
find a way to help you.
♪
[Whoosh]
EVE: One male character,
one female character.
He's about this tall.
- Wearing a flowery vest. She's...
- Eve, over there!
- Quick, the fugitives!
- [Gasps]
- Stop!
- Go, go, go, go, go!
Please, let's just all stay calm.
Now I know everyone is upset
about these strangers in our midst,
but I assure you, Sheriff Baird is...
Ah! Well, here she is now.
- What's going on?
- Well, I thought to gather
some people to aid your
search for our fugitives.
EVE: We lost them. They could be
anywhere in town or out of town.
No. They can't leave the island.
We're sure of that.
They got onto the island, James.
Indeed, they did. Curious.
But not, I think, quite
the same as leaving.
I'm sure they're still here.
Something's wrong with all of this.
One stranger is weird enough, but two?
And the totem's huge.
How did they take it?
I think...
[Soft whoosh]
I think they have a helicopter.
[Indistinct conversations]
[Whispers] Oh!
Why is he even here?!
[Lowered voice] Ohh.
There will be little place
in the world for a man like James
when the wizard's work is done.
Uh... [Clears throat]
Quiet, please, everyone.
After conferring with
the lovely Sheriff,
we have determined that the strangers
are still on the island.
[Crowd clamoring]
Yes, yes, I know.
I know. They've come here.
They've stolen our beloved totem.
They've ruined our perfect, happy life,
and yet we don't know who they are
or why they want to hurt us,
but I promise you this.
The Sheriff and I have
come up with a scheme,
a plan to catch them. Sheriff?
We need all hands on deck.
Professor Stone, Agent Jones,
Commander Cillian, and I
will be group leaders, and together
we will find these... strangers
and put 'em in jail where they belong!
CROWD: Yeah!
[Shouting indistinctly]
MORIARTY: Absolutely.
James begged to be sent
here with your friends.
But he's with her. She's with him.
Why are they with each other?
The spell weaves their stories together
according to their wants.
Obviously she's with him.
She must want her story...
MORIARTY: Well said.
Come on. Let's go, people!
This is not a story, Ariel.
These are not characters.
These are real people with real lives,
and we've gotta get her...
I mean, them... her and them,
the other Librarians... out of here.
Follow me!
Then you must find a way
to make them choose
their real lives over the story.
I have to figure out a
way to isolate them,
get 'em off this island.
[Gasps] Oh, can you move that...
your stepping gate...
anywhere you want it?
Stepping gate?
Oh. You mean the Back Door.
- Tim!
- Yes, Sheriff?
I want you to check out
Mrs. Myers' chicken coop.
It's a great place to lay low,
but careful with that arm.
It's not what it used to be.
Sierra, I want you to go
with Bo, not Mike.
I don't want you two
making out in the woods.
Okay, Sheriff.
They're not very organized,
are they, darling?
I'll tell you what. I'll sort them out.
- [Truck engine starts]
- Agent Jones? Sheriff Baird. Any progress?
Just getting started here, Sheriff.
I wish you'd look into
bringing in a Bureau search.
Then we could have this
whole thing wrapped up in...
We wanna keep this local, Agent Jones.
The last thing we need
are satellite vans
and media people turning
this town into a circus.
Roger that. As soon as we have
eyes on the target, we can...
Just sighted the male fugitive.
[Touch screen clicks]
- Go around back. Block the other end off.
- Come on.
He does not get past you, yeah?
♪
MAN: Over here! Hurry, guys!
Come on! To the corner!
What...
Come on. All right, let's go.
[Whoosh]
Cross the street. Cross the street.
Check both sides!
This is where it might get
dangerous, all right?
I lost a lot of good people
saving the Buddhas of Bamayin
from the Taliban.
That ain't happening today.
ARIEL: Yoo-hoo!
♪
That's her.
That's the girl.
Call the Sheriff!
[Whoosh]
[Crowd shouting indistinctly]
Agent Jones isn't answering.
Professor Stone has locked
himself inside the barbershop.
Look, we'll find them. It's just a
matter of time. [Cell phone rings]
- The town's on lockdown.
- Cassandra, tell me you've got... what?!
The lady. She's right here.
Eve, she's coming right towards
the bar. You have to get here...
Cassandra!
Wh... Eve! Eve, what's happening?!
♪
Eve. Eve.
[Whoosh]
[Muffled shouting]
[All shouting indistinctly, muffled]
[Whoosh]
Who the hell are you?
I'm Jenkins. He is Mr. Carsen.
And this is...
The Library.
And we are the Librarians.
Well, I am, and they are, and she's...
Very unhappy to still be here.
You have all been placed under a spell.
It is mixing with your memories.
You are not who you think you are.
[Laughs] I think
I'm the Sheriff of Cicely, Washington.
I think you two are thieves,
and I think you're crazy.
You... are Colonel Eve Baird,
anti-terrorism expert and
Guardian of the Library.
Also occasional pain in...
[Inhales sharply]
I will come back to you.
Jones, you're no lawman.
You are the stainless steel rat.
[Soft whoosh]
You're the fly in the ointment.
You're the answer to the riddle.
You're the one who crosses all the lines
and opens all the doors.
The Library invited you in.
Cassandra, you spent the first
part of your life invisible
to everybody around you.
Nobody knew that you had
the entire universe
inside your head.
[Soft whoosh]
That mind... That beautiful mind...
it is not for fairy-tale endings.
It is for finding the edges
and drawing the maps
so that others could follow.
Mr. Stone, you are five
of the world's most
foremost art historians.
[Soft whoosh] You are 10,000
years of human beings
singing and dancing and
painting and writing
their hearts and souls into the world.
This Library was built for you.
This is your home.
And you... [Soft whoosh]
You already... did me, I think.
Don't think, Eve. Just be.
♪
[Whoosh]
Flynn?
Hi! There you are.
What's happening? I... I can't think.
Everything's fuzzy.
[Squeals] True love's kiss.
[Gasps] That's actually
pretty... good. Old school.
Stories often turn on true love.
[Giggles]
Not a story, Ariel.
But it won't last. No, no, no, no, no.
Their stories have been changed.
If you want to get 'em back for good,
they have to reject these new stories
and... and d-destroy these talismans.
Well, how about it, guys?
Do you want your real lives back?
♪
[Whooshing]
Okay! Everybody knows their talisman.
They'll lay it at the base
of the totem pole
when Ariel brings it back,
and we'll break the spell.
The totem's where it always
was, just invisible.
- Intangible? I get them confused. Both?
- [Door opens and closes]
That's far enough.
[Gun cocks] Eve, behind me.
I'll protect you.
[Whoosh]
[Thud] James!
Don't worry. He's just sleeping.
I'm fond of him, too.
Fond of him? He's my boyfriend!
No, Eve, he's not your boyfriend.
Remember? You don't really
even know this guy.
Everybody, you really all
have to bite down on it.
- None of this is real.
- [Crowd shouting]
Um, guys? About that stroll...
♪
[Crowd shouting indistinctly]
The whole town's coming.
No-one's at the meeting ground.
Really, one call to the Bureau,
I can have us an armed escort.
What?
Right. Not FBI. Sorry.
- No.
- Still feels real.
But it feels real.
You're absolutely right.
They just discovered the
sixth pyramid of Giza.
I'm supposed to be the first
one through the door.
I still remember walking on the moon.
Well, bouncing, really.
These narrative spells...
they can feel when
you're breaking them.
- They take steps to pull you back in.
- What about James?
- I can't just leave him.
- James will be fine. Eve.
Colonel Baird! Snap to it! We're leaving!
Let's go! Everybody take your own route.
We'll meet back at the meeting place.
♪
[Moaning]
Ha! You think to slip
enchantment's weight.
Instead, embrace your fondest fate.
[Whoosh]
[Crowd shouting indistinctly]
MAN: All right, come on.
Let's go! Let's go!
WOMAN: Take the other side of the park!
- WOMAN: All right.
- Go!
[Whoosh]
[French accent] Professor Stone?
The very man I came to see.
You're Professor Lacroix.
From the Louvre.
Oui, oui. We have been most impressed
with your work, Professor.
We'd like you to come join for us
as chief curator and
scholar in residence.
Mr. Moriarty, we can't leave without you!
[Whoosh]
Special Agent Ezekiel Jones.
Yes? I mean, no. What?
- Director Walter? With Interpol?
- That's right, son.
Had my eye on you for some time.
I think they've got you
tied down here in Cicely.
How would you like to come to Interpol,
make the whole world your playground?
[Whoosh]
General McLarty.
Commander Cillian.
Your country has an offer for you.
How'd you like the chance
to be the first human being
to set foot on Mars?
With us, you could go anywhere,
do anything, be untouchable.
Not an art thief in the world
wouldn't fear your name.
I could be the best.
The greatest collection of treasures
the world has ever known...
yours to see, to touch, to study.
That's the only thing I've ever loved.
Magellan, Armstrong, Cillian.
You would be an inspiration
to children, to women,
to the world.
I never thought I'd
live to see the chance.
Come with me, Commander,
and I will make your dreams come true.
- What about my friends?
- Pardon?
I wouldn't be back for years, if ever.
Commander, I don't think
you quite understand
what I am offering here.
No. I have people here that need me.
[Whoosh]
I gotta go.
Sorry, mate.
They'd be lost without me.
Answer's no.
No, sir.
I have to find my friends.
[Whoosh]
♪
- We need to talk.
- I need to go, James.
I've not been honest with you.
I've not been able to,
certainly, but now, right now,
I'm free of Prospero's influence.
Whatever you're doing
has weakened his spell.
I can talk to you as
myself, if only for now.
Please. Please give me this moment.
[Sighs] Okay.
All right, a moment.
I know this is confusing
for you and your friends.
You're trying to escape
Cicely as if it's a trap.
It's messing with our minds.
It won't let go.
What would you call it?
I'd call it a sanctuary.
I'd call it our last chance.
Listen to me. Something
is going to happen...
something terrible.
It may be happening now.
I didn't give a toss
about the others, but you...
there is something between us,
and I couldn't let him take it.
He's already taken my life, my freedom.
I found I couldn't stand the thought
of him taking you as well.
I begged him to make this
town for you and your friends
so that you could find love, happiness.
Don't we all deserve
a happily-ever-after?
[Inhales deeply]
[Voice breaking] That's the problem.
I don't think there's any such thing,
not the way you mean it.
That's not real love. Real love is hard.
It's risky.
Sometimes it breaks your heart,
but you have to take that chance,
because that's what's real.
Those people, James, those
people are my friends,
and whatever's happening,
whatever's gonna happen,
I need to face it with them, and this...
[Whispers] I don't think it's real.
[Normal voice] I'm not even sure you are.
I'm sorry.
Fine.
I'll make my own way, then.
[Flag pin clatters]
[Crunching]
[Soft whoosh]
♪
It's not here. They
said it would be here.
I don't have time for this.
- All right, I got a class I gotta teach.
- I'm calling the Bureau.
It was a mistake leaving
this to amateurs.
Stop, stop, stop, stop.
We said we were doing this.
We have to see it through.
I don't know why I feel this way.
- We just do.
- See what through, Sheriff?
Those two are probably long gone by now.
Or just late because somebody
needed to pick flowers.
Not flowers. Well, yes, flowers,
but they're ingredients.
[Tinkles]
[Whooshing]
Right where I left it.
Whoa.
Now what?
Now... we have to break
the false narrative.
You each have to take your talismans
and place them at the foot of the totem
and then tell your story.
Your real story.
[Tinkling]
My name is...
Eve Baird,
and I'm a soldier.
I'm the Guardian.
I'm a thief.
No. I'm the thief.
I'm Ezekiel Jones.
And then I received this...
golden letter from the Library.
And I... found out that
magic is really...
really real.
It changed my life.
I'm a Librarian.
It's the best choice I ever made.
[Exhales] My turn.
Take me to your Library before...
Oh.
James, what have you done?
[Whoosh]
[Gasps]
[Crowd shouting indistinctly]
Ah! James, right. Uh, guys,
know that thing I said about running?
Let's do that.
Jenkins! I need a door!
I need a door even more
than when I said I needed one before!
[Whooshing]
[Grunts and groans]
- Eve!
- Flynn!
- Eve?!
- Flynn?!
Flynn, you okay?
Eve!
- Something's very wrong here.
- What the hell was that?
- Where are the others?
- STONE: We're here!
- All right.
- I'm a little bruised.
I landed on grass, at least.
Why did I land on grass?
Why are we out here?
Why aren't we in the annex?
Just a... hunch, mind you,
but I'm guessing it has
something to do with that.
Jenkins! Come on, man!
Oh, I hope nothing happened to him.
That's all right. No worries.
We'll use the side door.
- We have a side door?
- I have a side door.
I always have a side door. Come on.
FLYNN: This doesn't make any sense.
Obviously, I made some sort of mistake
when I brought us back.
Yes, occasionally I can make a mistake.
It doesn't happen very often, though,
but this is not supposed to be here.
This is the exact same totem.
Yes, but Ariel said that
this is only a focus.
There's no actual magic in it.
I rescued you guys. I broke the spell,
brought you back, Ariel's gone.
We can't get in the Library.
- Where is Jenkins, anyway?
- Who's Jenkins?
- What'd you say?
- I said this is weird,
and it is weird, because
I broke the spell.
This should not be here.
Jenkins. Flynn, Jenkins.
Tall guy, bow tie, walks like this.
Semi-mortal. Likes to tidy up.
I have no idea what
you're talking about.
Oh. This is the spell
trying to reassert itself.
I'm thinking it hasn't
stopped asserting itself.
Flynn, you're under Prospero's spell.
No, no. No, I rescued you from Prospero.
You... I did it single-handedly.
You saved us by yourself,
- with no-one's help...
- Yes.
You don't remember Jenkins.
The totem's here.
We can't get into the Library.
No, no, no. I saved you.
I agree Prospero's
trying to reassert his magic,
but it has nothing to do
with me. It has to do with you.
It always had something to do with you.
I just can't figure out how
this is supposed to get you
- back on that island.
- Exactly.
You're trying to figure it out.
That's the whole point.
- You love puzzles.
- Yes.
And this one's huge... the biggest one.
That is crazy. Eve, are you...
Flynn, your happily-ever-after
is an endless series of
puzzles and mysteries
that you get to solve.
Yeah, but I wasn't even here
when all this started.
This is Prospero.
This is all some sort of hallucination.
You guys are all... maybe even
possessed by some sort...
[Whooshing]
[Inhales deeply, flaps lips]
- Eve?
- There you are.
Ooh. [Exhales deeply]
I'm under the spell, aren't I?
Yes, you are.
But I don't have a talisman.
[Clears throat]
[Click]
[Soft whoosh]
You know what to do.
Yeah, I think I do.
[Clears throat] Um... hi.
I'm Flynn Carsen.
I'm the...
I'm Flynn Carsen, and I'm a Librarian.
Number 167, I think.
I was alone for a very long time,
and then I got a golden letter
that showed me that there was
an entirely different world...
magic. [Chuckles]
And I thought that's all I needed.
But, um...
Now... I know that I need more.
[Whooshing]
That was, uh...
not as easy as it looked.
We could, uh, totally just...
Oh. Totem's gone.
So that's... finally it. It's over?
- Only one way to find out.
- [Door opens]
Jenkins!
Oh. Three weeks.
All of us under a spell.
So glad you're back.
Prospero had us under for three weeks.
What's Prospero been
doing for three weeks?
Flynn, look up.
- [Whooshing]
- The ley lines.
Why are they up there?
The paths of magic...
they're supercharged.
Is that good or bad?
Depends on how you feel
about the end of the world.
♪
Subtitle sync and corrections by awaqeded
WEB-DL resync by kinglouisxx
for www.addic7ed.com.